Dear Fellow Scholars, this is Two Minute Papers
with Károly Zsolnai-Fehér.
A few episodes ago, we discussed a new research
work that performs something that they call
differentiable rendering.
The problem formulation is the following:
we specify a target image that is either rendered
by a computer program, or even better, a photo.
The input is a pitiful approximation of it,
and now, because it progressively changes
the input materials, textures, and even the
geometry of this input in a 3D modeler system,
it is able to match this photo.
At the end of the video, I noted that I am
really looking forward for more differentiable
rendering and differentiable everything papers.
So, fortunately, here we go, this new paper
introduces differentiable programming for
physical simulations.
So what does that mean exactly?
Let’s look at a few examples and find out
together!
Imagine that we have this billiard game, where
we would like to hit the white ball with just
the right amount of force and from the right
direction, such that the blue ball ends up
close to the black spot.
Let’s try it.
Well, this example shows that this doesn’t
happen by chance, and we have to engage in
a fair amount of trial and error to make this
happen.
What this differentiable programming system
does for us is that we can specify an end
state, which is the blue ball on the black
dot, and it is able to compute the required
forces and angles to make this happen.
Very close.
But the key point here is that this system
is general, and therefore can be applied to
many-many more problems.
We’ll have a look at a few that are much
more challenging than this example.
For instance, it can also teach this gooey
object to actuate itself in a way so that
it would start to walk properly within only
2 minutes.
The 3D version of this simulation learned
so robustly, so that it can even withstand
a few extra particles in the way.
The next example is going to be obscenely
powerful.
I’ll try to explain what this is to make
sure we can properly appreciate it.
Many years ago, I was trying to solve a problem
called fluid control, where we would try to
coerce a smoke plume or a piece of fluid to
take a given shape.
Like a bunny, or a logo with letters.
You can see some footage of this project here.
The key difficulty of this problem is that
this is not what typically happens in reality,
of course, a glass of spilled water is very
unlikely to suddenly take the shape of a human
face, so we have to introduce changes to the
simulation itself, but at the same time, it
still has to look as if it could happen in
nature.
If you wish to know more about my work here,
the full thesis and the source code is available
in the video description, and one of my kind
students has even implemented it in Blender.
So, this problem is obscenely difficult.
So you can now guess what’s next for this
differentiable technique…it starts out with
a piece of simulated ink with a checkerboard
pattern, and it exerts just the appropriate
forces so that it forms exactly the Yin-Yang
symbol shortly after.
I am shocked by how such a general system
can perform something of this complexity.
Having worked on this problem for a while,
I can tell you that this is immensely difficult.
Amazing.
And hold on to your papers, because it can
do even more.
In this example, it adds carefully crafted
ripples to the water, to make sure that it
ends up in a state that distorts the image
of the squirrel in a way that a powerful and
well-known neural network sees it not as a
squirrel, but as a goldfish.
This thing is basically a victory lap in the
paper.
It is so powerful, it’s not even funny.
You can just make up some problems that sound
completely impossible and it rips right through
them.
The full source code of this work is also
available.
By the way, the first author of this paper
is Yuanming Hu, his work was showcased several
times in this series, in one of the earlier
videos, we showcased his amazing Jello simulation
that was implemented in so few lines of code,
it almost fits on a business card.
I said it in a previous episode, and I will
say it again.
I can’t wait to see more and more papers
in differentiable rendering and simulations.
And as this work leaves plenty of room for
creativity for novel problem definitions,
I’d love to hear what you think about it.
What else could this be used for?
Solving video games faster than other learning-based
techniques?
Anything else?
Let me know in the comments below.
What a time to be alive!
This episode has been supported by Weights
& Biases.
Here you see a beautiful final report on one
of their projects on classifying parts of
street images, and see how these learning
algorithms evolve over time.
Weights & Biases provides tools to track your
experiments in your deep learning projects.
It can save you a ton of time and money in
these projects and is being used by OpenAI,
Toyota Research, Stanford and Berkeley.
Make sure to visit them through wandb.com/papers
or just click the link in the video description
and you can get a free demo today.
Our thanks to Weights & Biases for helping
us make better videos for you.
This episode has been supported by Weights
& Biases.
Weights & Biases provides tools to track your
experiments in your deep learning projects.
It can save you a ton of time and money in
these projects and is being used by OpenAI,
Toyota Research, Stanford and Berkeley.
It is really easy to set up, so much so that
they have made an instrumentation for this
exact paper we have talked about in this episode.
Have a look here!
Make sure to visit them through wandb.com/papers
or just click the link in the video description
and you can get a free demo today.
Our thanks to Weights & Biases for helping
us make better videos for you.
Thanks for watching and for your generous
support, and I'll see you next time!